# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?
In console.rb, when creating property1, property2, property3, using Property.new

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?
properties.sql

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?
31. property3.save()
33. property1.delete()

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?
We don't create the id; we send details of the property object through to the database, where the id is generated.  An id is created in the database, which is returned to us when we call the save method, (as we have built this into the method, with 'returning id').

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?
In the save method:   @id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]["id"].to_i

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?
An object does not necessarily have to have an id and it won't initially, as they are assigned in the database.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?
Some methods apply to all the information in the table, such as Property.all, when you want to return all of the information in the table. In this case, you apply a class method. Some methods should only apply to one instance of a class, e.g. .update, when you are only aiming to update an instance of the class, i.e. one object, rather than the whole class.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

A hash.   @id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]["id"].to_i brings back the data.  We could then use a method like Property.all to view the data.

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

To protect against SQL injection attacks.  For example, a user could use the input forms on a site to input code that retrieves or deletes the site data. Using prepared statements means that the input is sanitised before being used.  This can also be helpful as people may input characters that would unintentionally disrupt our code, e.g. an apostrophe.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?
'find_by_id' - id   find_by_address - address ("57 Carriers Road, CROESERW, SA13 7GQ")

Q11. What are their return values?
The instance of the relevant class
